The President:
This was a momentous
week for America.
It was a week in which together,
we took bold new steps towards
restoring economic security for
our middle class and rebuilding
a stronger foundation
for our future.
It was a week in which some of
the change that generations have
hoped for and worked for finally
became reality in America.
It began with the passage of
comprehensive health insurance
reform that will begin to end
the worst practices of the
insurance industry, rein in
our exploding deficits, and,
over time, finally offer
millions of families and small
businesses quality,
affordable care --
and the security and peace
of mind that comes with it.
And it ended with Congress
casting a final vote on another
piece of legislation that
accomplished what we've been
talking about for decades -- legislation that will reform our
student loan system and help us educate all Americans to compete
and win in the 21st century.
Year after year, we've seen
billions of taxpayer dollars
handed out as subsidies to bankers and middlemen who handle
federal student loans, when
that money should have gone to
advancing the dreams of our
students and working families.
And yet attempts to fix this
problem and reform this program
were thwarted by special
interests that fought tooth and
nail to preserve their
exclusive giveaway.
But this time, we said,
we would be different.
We said we'd stand up to
the special interests,
and stand up for the interests
of students and families.
That's what happened this week.
I commend all the Senators and Representatives who did the right thing.
This reform of federal student loan programs will save
taxpayers $68 billion
over the next decade.
And with this legislation,
we're putting that money to use
achieving a goal I set for
America: by the end of this
decade, we will once again
have the highest proportion of
college graduates in the world.
To make college more affordable
for millions of middle-class
Americans for whom the cost of
higher education has become an
unbearable burden, we're
expanding federal Pell Grants
for students: increasing them to
keep pace with inflation in the
coming years and putting the
program on a stronger financial footing.
In total, we are doubling funding for the federal Pell
Grant program to help the
students who depend on it.
To make sure our students don't
go broke just because they chose
to go to college, we're making
it easier for graduates to
afford their student
loan payments.
Today, about 2 in 3 graduates
take out loans to pay for college.
The average student ends up
with more than $23,000 in debt.
So when this change
takes effect in 2014,
we'll cap a graduate's annual
student loan repayments at 10%
of his or her income.
To help an additional 5 million
Americans earn degrees and
certificates over
the next decade,
we're revitalizing programming
at our community colleges --
the career pathways for millions
of dislocated workers and
working families
across this country.
These schools are
centers of learning;
where students young and old can
get the skills and technical
training they need for the
jobs of today and tomorrow.
They're centers of
opportunity as well;
where we can forge partnerships between students and businesses
so that every community can
gain the workforce it needs.
And they are vital to
our economic future.
And to ensure that all our
students have every chance to
live up to their full potential,
this legislation also increases
support for our Minority
Serving Institutions,
including our Historically Black
Colleges and Universities,
to keep them as strong as
ever in this new century.
Education and health care.
Two of the most important
pillars of a strong America grew
stronger this week.
These achievements don't
represent the end of our
challenges; nor do they signify
the end of the work that faces
our country.
But what they do represent
is real and major reform.
What they show is that we're a
nation still capable of doing big things.
What they prove is what's
possible when we can come
together to overcome the
politics of the moment;
push back on the
special interests;
and look beyond the next
election to do what's right for
the next generation.
That's the spirit in which we
continue the work of tackling
our greatest common tasks
-- an economy rebuilt;
job creation revitalized;
an American Dream renewed --
for all people.
Thank you.